[Music]
seven tips on how to survive natural
disasters we live in a time when natural
disasters occur more and more often and
get more and more devastating many of us
believe we should blame the human race
for that whether it's true or not we all
want to know how to survive when those
disasters happen Brightside has put
together a list of survival tips that
can save your life in an emergency
counting down from number 7 hurricane
devastating hurricane sweep through the
world particularly in the Caribbean and
southern US more and more often in the
recent years the best place to hide
during a hurricane is a secure basement
a closet or a bathroom with no windows
it is also a good idea to get under a
solid piece of furniture to save
yourself from a collapsing roof a
must-have device to have with you in
this situation is a weather radio
running on batteries it will give you
evacuation orders or instructions on how
to survive in your shelter and update
you on the weather situation as you wait
for the all-clear signal
protect your house to be on the safe
side install shutters and panels on your
doors and windows and secure the roof if
a hurricane starts while you're driving
leave your vehicle and find a building
to shelter in or a ditch stopping in an
overpass will not save you if your home
is a trailer and there is enough time to
flee to a safe area do it do not stay in
the trailer hoping it will withstand the
storm number 6 tornado tornado swirl at
the speed of 300 miles per hour and ruin
everything in their way once you hear a
tornado warning and notice the skies
getting darker and darker and the
barometric pressure drop it's time to
get into a sturdy shelter again it's a
good idea to take a weather radio with
you an underground shelter or a room on
the lowest floor is the best place to
hide stay in the middle of the room as
debris mostly heads for the corners
protect your head with sofa cushions or
your arms
if a tornado starts when you're in a
public building follow the same rules
you want to stay as low as possible
avoid windows and open spaces such as
auditoriums gyms and large hallways
desks and benches can give you some
extra protection if you get under them
it is impossible to outrun a tornado it
can easily lift up your car and driving
in weather conditions it brings all be
fast anyway if you don't have enough
time to drive to the nearest shelter
stop your car in an open area with no
trees or objects that can crash down on
it get out of the car and hide in a
ditch or lie flat on the ground
protecting your head with your arms be
careful and wait for the tornado to pass
leave the damaged building as soon as
you are informed it's safe outside
number five
tsunami gigantic ocean waves caused by
earthquakes and underwater landslides
are called tsunamis and they are up to
no good
they obviously arise in coastal areas no
matter if you live in one of those or
stay there on vacation do not wait for
any instructions once you feel an
earthquake immediately escape to a
higher lying area tsunamis are so fast
they hit the coast minutes after the
earthquake
remember that tall buildings including
hotels right in the beach area can
provide an excellent shelter in case of
tsunami finds you at sea stay there
instead of going back to the coast it
won't be a safe haven if you live in an
area with a high tsunami risk it is a
good idea to discuss an evacuation plan
with your friends and family think of a
place where you can all escape in case
of disaster number 4 flood
floods occur more often than any other
natural disasters and changed the
landscape dramatically remember New
Orleans Houston and other low-lying
areas they're usually caused by intense
rainfalls which can be long or even very
sure don't try to be the bravest person
around and stay in your house once you
hear the evacuation warning leave for
safer higher grounds with your important
papers in a waterproof container if a
flash flood gives you no time to
evacuate and the water is all around you
don't try to swim across it a river with
debris in it is way stronger than you
worst-case scenario when there is no
other way but move in the water try
swimming on your back with your arms
behind to steer number three avalanche
an avalanche can hit when you are
enjoying Alpine Skiing in a dreamlike
location it is very fast and devastating
burying everything in its way under tons
of snow when an avalanche starts try to
move to the side of the slope as fast as
you can there will be more snow in the
center of the flow to move faster drop
any heavy equipment you have on you if
you can't escape it try using a sturdy
tree to keep you above the snow don't
let yourself sink kick your feet and
arms as if you were swimming in the snow
heading uphill in case you get buried in
the snow dig an air pocket for you to be
able to keep breathing wait for the
rescue team to find you and don't waste
your energy shouting or aggressively
digging the snow unless you can hear
them close to you number two wildfire
wildfires both natural and man-made
spread at an amazing speed and destroy
everything in their way
if you find yourself in a wildfire area
it is critically important to ensure
that you can breathe if you fail to do
it you can pass out in the midst of a
danger zone use a wet cloth to cover
your nose and mouth and escape to safety
upwind of the fire and in a treeless and
bush lacerio is
safest place you can go the best option
is to find any building to hide it
remember to leave its doors unlock so
that the firefighters can save you if it
comes to that if there are no buildings
but there is water next to you get in it
if you can get in a vehicle and drive
away from the wildfire do it it will
give you more chances to save yourself
than running away obviously even when
the smoke gets so thick it is impossible
to drive do not leave the vehicle number
one earthquake there are some areas in
the world which are more prone to an
earthquake than others you most likely
know if you live in one of those areas
John Anderson and you Ichiro Miata
of the University of Nevada singled at
the top American states where
earthquakes take place most often they
are Alaska California and Nevada
however earthquakes of higher or lower
severity can happen just about anywhere
you might not be heard by the earth
shaking itself but by the things that
fall on you make sure your TV set and
bookshelves are secure on the walls
heavy furniture also has to stand firmly
on the ground
picture frames and mirrors do not belong
right over your head if an earthquake
starts when you are inside stay where
you were experts say that during an
earthquake you must drop to the floor
get underneath a table cover your neck
and head with one hand and hold on with
the other your entire body must be under
a table don't try to run out of the
building the exterior of a building is
one of the most dangerous places if you
don't have any tables try to get as low
as possible protect your head and neck
with your hands if you are outside when
disaster starts stay in an open area
away from anything that can fall on you
some rules are universal for most
natural disasters a national campaign
called ready was started in the United
States to inform the population on how
to get ready for and survive in
different emergency situations it
man's having a basic survival kit to
provide you with the most important
things just in case remember you will
need to have enough food water and other
supplies for at least 72 hours after the
disaster other supplies include a
battery-powered weather radio flashlight
first-aid kit a whistle a dust mask
personal sanitation items such as moist
towelettes pliers can opener for food
maps of your area and an emergency cell
phone with backup batteries we hope you
will never have to follow any of these
rules but if it happens you will know
what to do click thumbs up if you found
this video useful subscribe to our
channel to not miss any updates we share
remember life is better on the bright
side